# Analyzes Project
## Geog 458
### Zejun Zheng
 
Ellis Act Evictions, San Francisco – Anti-Eviction Mapping Project
Introduction
The anti-eviction mapping project includes data visualization and analysis connected to the resistance of the residence in San Francisco facing gentrifying landscapes. The project was created to make visualization available for people to explore information regarding San Francisco evictions. One of the project aims was to provide a piece of online information regarding evictions that could be easily accessed by the citizens and anybody else interested in the data. The project looks into incidences of evictions in San Francisco and the effects it has caused on the affected people. An anti-eviction mapping project allows one to navigate the data, which is incorporated with audios making explanations and comprehension of the information more interactive. The anti-eviction mapping project was created to collect data that would be used in support of the ground and other anti-eviction programs. The project works by creating digital maps with histories for people to understand the trends of evictions.
Furthermore, the project would sensitize ordinary citizens on their rights regarding renting houses. The data, whose collection began in 2013, shows San Francisco's evictions between 1994 and 2020.  The Ellis Eviction Act triggered the beginning of the project. One of the project aims was to create a collective resistance among the citizens to stand for their rights. Besides, the data forms a basis for designing and developing movements to stand against racist methodologies.  
The project's functions include showing the areas and regions that have been adversely affected by evictions in San Francisco. 
From the map, there were 5245 households evicted from their families for the period 1994 to 2020 under the Ellis Act Evictions. The map indicates that most of the evictions happened on the eastern side of San Francisco. Additionally, the project gives an overview of the relationship between evictions and real estate speculation in San Francisco. The project's data help the activists and scholars fight for justice of the tenants regarding the evictions.
The government may use the project's content in making its projections on budgetary allocations basing the number of people who have been forcibly evicted from households. There are other groups, including human rights, which have a great interest in the information since they need facts to present their cases in the fight for justice. Some groups offer humanitarian help services that need to know the exact number of people in need. They would get such information from the anti-eviction mapping project, which includes those people's precise location. Another target audience of the data is the people who have been evicted to be informed of their predicament and mobilize them to fight for their rights and justice.  Many people had no access to data and facts concerning forceful evictions until the anti-eviction mapping program was made available to the public.  
Systematic Architecture
Digital maps depict the eviction trends and other relevant information, including dates for the evictions' occurrence. The digital map shows the entanglements of real estate and global capital. Also, there is the representation of displacements' effects on the country's economy and political landscape. The map has been structured in such a way that the user can zoon in and out to find fine details of the representations. The map creates a visual impression that can be reliable in drawing conclusions. The design creates a visual design language through the pinpoints and the explanations alongside the map. The design helps the user in map synthesis and acquiring the correct information.  
Web Mapping Design
	The project supports the responsive design since the content seems to adjust to the browser consistently throughout the map. The chosen method is friendly and gave the map a sense of simplicity for the users. Moving the cursor over the map's representative models provides more information about eviction in that particular place. There are specific sites that offer more details about the evictions with the same site hosting the map. 
	The base map of San Francisco helps in locating the exact points of interest regarding evictions. The authors managed to incorporate street names and other geographical details in the map to find additional information relating to the central theme of the map. Particular themes have been followed in developing the map. The great theme that has been used in the map is "evictions," and the content development is based on the theme. The graphics used to represent special distributions are based on evictions in various locations. Furthermore, the map was made with layers allowing the user to access the hidden information on the layers by passing the cursor over the desired pinpoints. The map has been created with interactive mapping techniques. The evidence is that one can easily zoom in and out hence improving the display of more data and accuracy of pinpoints' placements. The map is interactive since it allows one to access more information on an area of interest apart from the main theme of eviction. 
Pros and Cons of the Anti-Eviction Mapping Project
The map has been of great use to the people since they get the information to the most suitable places they resettle. The evictees are on a constant lookout for places where they can afford to pay rent. Since the data was made public, cases of rampant evictions have reduced in San Francisco following the citizens' knowledge and the help of humanitarian groups that have acted on their behalf. The activists' groups get enough information from the project and educate the people on approaching such situations as forceful evictions. Also, there is an advantage since the government will know the right points and sections to amend in the laws governing housing to align with every individual's human rights in society.   
The project's problem is that it may lead to unrest in the country if all the affected people decide to demonstrate as a way of protesting against the evictions. Besides, other groups may emerge that will fraudulently use the information to solicit funds in the pretense of taking humanitarian aids to the affected people. There is likely to be s lapse in the real estate business since the landlords may not have the authority to set their rent requirements. Under such circumstances, the economy suffers because most of the rental houses are likely to remain empty. Additionally, more people will move away from some parts of San Francisco because of the published information on families' forceful evictions by the landlords.  
From the project, it is clear that San Francisco has significantly affected the Ellis Act Eviction. Every part has a case, although others are more affected compare to other places. Places with more evictions are likely to indicate that there are fewer people who own houses. 
Social, Economic, and Political Implications
	The anti-eviction mapping project has made the tenants develop a negative attitude towards every house owner. The project's report will highlight social injustices, including racism which is most likely to be addressed with the seriousness it deserves. Although evictions have touched every race in San Francisco, some groups are overrepresented. Therefore, upon implementation of the project's recommendations, there is a likelihood of a reduction in racism cases. Feminism is another issue that the project report will touch. 
Since the emergence of anti-eviction mapping, people have been active in protecting their rights and striving to attain tenants' justice. As a result, some places have been marked as areas where evections happened, and potential buyers are warned of such areas' consequences. Therefore, the real estate business has been affected in San Francisco's specific regions compared to its state before the project was made public. Tenants have marked out particular areas and apartments s in the map where they have declared never to rent them again. Boycotting certain quarters has forced the landlords to adjust rent hence affecting the housing sector negatively since other owners whose properties were not marked will have to follow suit.
On the other hand, the project report has gone a long way in forcing the authorities to consider reforms in the Ellis Eviction Act. The reforms will be a relief to the tenants since they will be assured of their security, and justice will prevail. The chances of landlords evicting tenants forcibly will be reduced. Realization of some groups that have been overrepresented in the evictions would cause agitations for equality. Divisions and movements are likely to form when people call for the government and authorities to ensure that such vices are solved. Political landscape is more likely to be affected by the information of the project report  
The Ellis Act Evictions is not in compliance with the current standards of human rights. The act needs to be reviewed to give tenants a chance to realize justice. The landlords should be barred from evicting their tenants whenever they want. The continued oppression of the tenants might lead to the development of resistance, which is detrimental to the country's peace economic stability. The project will help keep track of the evictions' progress and make the most appropriate suggestions to the government and human rights groups.  
